convolution converts all the pixels in its receptive field into a single value. For example, if you would apply a convolution to an image, you will be decreasing the image size as well as bringing all the information in the field together into a single pixel. The final output of the convolutional layer is a vector.Convolution is a general purpose filter effect for images. □ Is a matrix applied to an image and a mathematical operation. comprised of integers. □ It works by determining the value of a central pixel by adding the. weighted values of all its neighbors together.Convolutional neural network (CNN) is a neural network that has one or more convolutional layers and are used mainly for image processing, classification, segmentation and also for other auto correlated data. A convolution is essentially sliding a filter over the input.Compared to its predecessors, the main advantage of CNN is that it automatically detects the important features without any human supervision. This is why CNN would be an ideal solution to computer vision and image classification problems.convolutional neural network is one that has convolutional layers. If a general neural network is, loosely speaking, inspired by a human brain (which isn't very much accurate), the convolutional neural network is inspired by the visual cortex system, in humans and other animals (which is closer to the truth).Linear convolution has three important properties:
Commutative property.
Associative property.
Distributive property.we pad the image by (F — 1)/2 pixels on all sides, the size of N x N will be preserved. Thus we have two types of convolutions, Valid Convolution and Same Convolution. Valid essentially means no padding. So each Convolution results in reduction in the size.What is the difference between CNN and ANN? CNN has one or more layers of convolution units, which receives its input from multiple units. CNN uses a more simpler alghorithm than ANN. CNN is a easiest way to use Neural Networks.Definition of convolution

 1 : a form or shape that is folded in curved or tortuous windings the convolutions of the intestines. 2 : one of the irregular ridges on the surface of the brain and especially of the cerebrum of higher mammals.Convolution is a mathematical way of combining two signals to form a third signal. It is the single most important technique in Digital Signal Processing. Using the strategy of impulse decomposition, systems are described by a signal called the impulse response.The convolution theorem is useful, in part, because it gives us a way to simplify many calculations. Convolutions can be very difficult to calculate directly, but are often much easier to calculate using Fourier transforms and multiplication.Without image padding, the pixels on the edge of the image are only partially processed (which may be OK), and the result of convolution will be smaller than the original image size (usually not good).The depth of the input or number of filters used in convolutional layers often increases with the depth of the network, resulting in an increase in the number of resulting feature maps. It is a common model design pattern.Computer Vision is evolving rapidly day-by-day. When we talk about Computer Vision, the term Convolutional Neural Networks (abbreviated as CNN) comes into our mind because CNN is heavily used here.

Therefore it becomes necessary for every aspiring Data Scientist and Machine Learning Engineer to have a good knowledge of these Neural Networks.

In this article, we will discuss the most important questions on the Convolutional Neural Networks(CNNs) which is helpful to get you a clear understanding of the techniques, and also for Data Science Interviews, which covers its very fundamental level to complex concepts.1. Feedforward neural networks can learn a single feature representation of the image but in the case of complex images, ANN will fail to give better predictions, this is because it cannot learn pixel dependencies present in the images.

2. CNN can learn multiple layers of feature representations of an image by applying filters, or transformations.

3. In CNN, the number of parameters for the network to learn is significantly lower than the multilayer neural networks since the number of units in the network decreases, therefore reducing the chance of overfitting.

4. Also, CNN considers the context information in the small neighborhood and due to this feature, these are very important to achieve a better prediction in data like images. Since digital images are a bunch of pixels with high values, it makes sense to use CNN to analyze them. CNN decreases their values, which is better for the training phase with less computational power and less information loss.
